hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language in this live class we're going
to what the hell is this this my friends
is a cow well I don't know what you want
to call it a cow Pat that is a cow Pat
yes that is a cow Pat and this is IELTS
reading what we're going to do in this
live class specifically is look at the
diagram labeled completion task which
asks you to look at an image like that
and to label it it's a little bit tricky
and I think you should stick around and
watch this but before you go any further
but nearly at a hundred thousand
subscribers so if you haven't subscribed
Click the SUBSCRIBE button below
bring us to a hundred thousand that will
be sweet so the diagram labeled
completion task is one of 11th reading
task types in the IELTS including IELTS
general and IELTS academic let's look at
how to solve this particular reading
task accurately right so this is what
you're going to see on test day
obviously you'll see paragraphs of
writing but this is what the question
type kind of looks like what you want to
do first as always is read the
instruction the instruction says label
the tunnels on the diagram using words
from the box let me just take you
through that what that means the key
word here and this one is tunnels these
things here are the tunnels so we need
to label the tunnels from words from the
box for example French might go here
Spanish might go here whatever okay and
we're going to be reading about these
tunnels and the cow poo cow Pat there
you go so we also need to analyze the
diagram here because yes we can see the
poo that's cool we can see the food
there's a Flies
flying around the poop that's fine we
can also see this here approximate depth
in centimeters below surface 0 10 20 30
now we can see that these little tunnels
go to various depths right so you need
to analyze this picture before you look
into the paragraph to find the answers
the answers will come from here on your
answer sheet you will write the
particular words like this this is an
example only but this is what you need
to write now of course the answers come
from the paragraphs of text and how
these particular question type works on
testing is like this usually the
questions follow the same order as the
text right you know ants reading for
example question 1 is located in usually
at the top of paragraph 1 or somewhere
in paragraph 1 question 2 little bit
further down question 3 duck Duck Duck
the Ducks are the questions follow the
same order as the text except for this
task what this task might do is you
might have to go back to a specific
paragraph previous in the text to find
the answers for this diagram to label
the diagram right I remember one of the
ones I did for IELTS reading for example
I had to label the diagram of a spinning
Jimmy or something some little tool that
make cotton right but in order to do
that I had to go back to a paragraph
back in the text now all of the answers
for the labeling came from this one
paragraph but I think that's usually how
this question type works all of the
answers will come from a single
paragraph but you need to go back and
find that particular paragraph cool so
let's get straight into it let's label
this diagram let's do this question it
looks very confusing but I'll show you
the answers in a second first of all I'm
going to give you 30 seconds to analyze
this these instructions the diagram and
the box
all right you've had a good look at the
instructions there you've had a good
look at the diagram you should
understand what's going on and you've
had a look at the possible answers now
we're going to move on and we're going
to do this I'm going to give you three
minutes but really you should be able to
answer these three questions one two
three or six seven eight in two minutes
see how you go with three
okie-dokie that's three minutes how did
you go there just let me have a little
look I saw some mistakes I'm gonna show
you what the mistakes are it's a tricky
little one okay looking good looking
good looking good let's go through the
answers here let's go through the
answers okay fine
so let's I'm gonna give you a few hints
this particular sentence gives one of
them away the particular sentence says
some large species originating from
France excavate tunnels to a depth of
approximately 30 centimeters below the
dump at these beetles make sausage
shaped brood chambers along the tunnels
the key here remember we're looking at
the depth of 30 centimeters okay so 30
centimeters you can see these ones here
so we're looking at number seven which
one is what type of dung beetle burrows
to 30 cm approximately 30 centimeters
you probably saw this keyword here
France and maybe you wrote the word
France here in which case you are wrong
because the type of dung beetle is not
France it's actually French if you wrote
for number seven the word French you are
correct well done let's move on and look
at this particular sentence again we're
just looking in that middle paragraph
all of the answers will usually come
from a single paragraph it says the
shallowest tunnels so which tunnels are
we looking at six seven or eight the
shallowest tunnels the most shallow
tunnels belong to a much smaller Spanish
species that buries dung in chambers
that hang like fruit from the branches
of a pear tree that is a weird sentence
I've got to say but the answers are
there is Spanish because we're looking
at the shallowest well this one here is
going to be the shallowest therefore
number eight and the key word here is
we're looking at Spanish right cool so
if you're right number eight Spanish
well done you can see that this is not
going in order
by the way okay let's move on to this
sentence here are these sentences South
African beetles do get narrow tunnels of
approximately 20 centimeters below the
surface of the pad some surface-dwelling
beetles including a South African
species cut perfectly shaped balls from
the pad to roll the way and attach to
the bases of the plants I've put that
second sentence there to trick you
because you can see it's easy to be
distracted we're looking at number six
because we're looking at twenty
approximately twenty centimeters so 20
centimeters is here this is
approximately 20 centimeters this one's
a bit lower this one's about here it's
when we're talking about number six and
the particular type of dung beetle whoo
beetle here is well we're looking at
South African so number six is South
African if your answers look like their
South African French and Spanish give
yourself a pat on the back you are now
an IELTS legend because this is by no
means a tricky one I guess the trickiest
part of this is firstly understanding
what you're looking at understanding
that diagram it's all important
understanding that instruction because
it says tunnels because you look at that
thing you think what is this Oh
tunnels right got it so you understand
the diagram you can see the centimeters
you're next next thing you have to do is
find where in which paragraph you'll
find all of the information so it will
come further along so you've probably
read through the text already in here
are these come this was back here
somewhere
oh yeah paragraph three that had all the
information about the tunnels right or
the information about the car or this
spinning jenny or whatever cool tada
that's how you do this one here just
before I let you go if you're not a
subscriber to YouTube click that
subscribe button we want to get to
100,000 we're at 96 thousand now
hopefully we can get to a hundred
thousand soon that'd be cool also if you
need help with your IELTS test in any
which way shape or form
WWWE to language comm sign up for free
baby sign up for free to get access to
practice materials good quality practice
materials and methods methods like this
one that teach you how to do the
particular question types if you're
feeling a little bit generous you can
upgrade your account to take one-on-one
tutorials with teachers teachers are
great we've got ex IELTS examiner's and
also they give you feedback on your
writing and speaking and it's all good
it's all good it's all good it's all
there at e2 language calm cool banana